ll&-

m'rnonuc‘non. lxxi
§ XXXVI. To the Justiciar, the laity

rendered but a sulky submission ε and the
jealousy excited by his legatine functions,
put him out of favour with his own order.
Hubert was also warmly engaged in a
domestic quarrel. He was labouring to
abrogate the capitular rights of his MonkS,
and perhaps to eject them altogether
from the Cathedral monastery. At this
juncture, occurred the rebellion and death
of william Fitz Osbert. Hubert's violation
of the immunities of the Sanctuary of Saint
Mary le Bow, his own Peculiar, excited the
most grievous indignation of the Monks.
They urged, that whilst enforcing the royal
authority, he was nevertbeless bound to
respect the privileges of the Church3 and
all communication between them and their
Pastor was at an end.

Hubert became anxious to resign his
station, alleging that he felt himself unable
to suffice for the whole civil and eccle-
siastica} administration of the Kingdom.
Richard, at first, would not accept this
resignation. No one was ever found like
unto Hubert in the preservation of the
King's rights and the administration of the
law. But at length Richard yielded‚ and
allowed the J usticiar to retire.

When Hubert had obtained this permis-
sion, then he suddenly repented him of the

e 4

Heredem

767.
Get-vanius.

1597, 1614.

 

