Feb. 1190.

xliv INTRODUCTION.

J usticiar, held the Chancellorship. One of
the seals, the seal appointed to remain in
England, was delivered to him for the ex-
ecution of the King's commandS, and be
was moreover entrusted with the custody
of the Tower of London. For the Chan-
cellorship, he gave the sum of three thou-
sand markS. A competitor, “ Reginaldus
Italus,'' offered an additional thousand.
But Richard, from bis greater trust, as we
may suppose, in Longchamp, accepted the
lower tender.

In order to maintain a species of balance
between the powers of the two jealous
PrelateS, the ‚custody of Windsor Castle
together with the Forest, and also the
Shrievalty of the County of BerkS, were
granted to Bishop Pudsey. This arrange-
ment, however, was better calculated to
enable both parties to annoy each other
than to promote concord. It was extremely
unpleasing to Pudsey: and great dissen-
sions arose between the nominal Chief J us-

ticiar and his colleague, whose views seldom
or ever coincided.

§ XXVI. Richard now prepared himself Β. Abba,

in earnest for the Crusade‚ and a Council 3332&

Neubrigen-
Sis, 394·
by Queen Eleanor, John Earl of Moreton ξδῖἷξὸὓ

his brother, and by various Bishops, who augurians

was held in Normandy, which was attended

are stated to have crossed the Channel by

