Sept. 1191.

lvi mnonoc'rlon.

temned. Geoffry‚ at the instigation of his
brother John, despised the prohibition, and

lauded at Dover. The Archbishop took
refuge in the monastery os Saint Martin.

Longchamp’s officers broke into the church
where the Archbishop had just concluded
mass. Clad in his sacerdotal vestments, he
was seized by the Officers, who literally
dragged him throughs the streets‚ using
much more violence than was needed, and
treating him with unnecessary despite and
contumely.

Indignities thus sustained by the Primate
of England‚ offered a plausible reason for
exerting the powers said to have been con-
fided to the J usticiar’s enemieS. The Jus-
ticiar did not attempt to palliate the pro-
ceedings which attended the Archbishop's
arrest. He had not directed them 3 and the
Constable of Dover, acting as is often done
on similar emergencies‚ thought fit to under-
stand much more from the warrant 111311 was
really intended. But these excuses availed
him nothing. His foes had got him fast in
the snare, and they were determined to ef-
seect his fall. John and the Archbishop of
Rouen, together with the other J usticiam,
summoned Longchamp to make amends to
the Archbishop of York‚ and 10 answer for
his conduct before the Curia Regis. Long-
champ attempted. to put off the evil day,

