mruonuc'non. lxxiii

concerning the collegiate chapel founded
at Lambeth, and by means of which, a pre-
bendal Chapter would have obtained the
rights hitherto vested in the Monks of the

Cathedral. It was contrary to all ecclesi-
astica] discipline‚—they complained to the
Pope,—that Hubert Archhishop of Canter-
bury should act as the King's J usticiar,
sitting as a judge upon criminals con-
demned to capital punishment, and be ⁶
so entirely wrapped up and engrossed in
secular affairS, that all his ecclesiastical
duties were neglected and cast aside. —
They concluded their charges against the
Archbishop by declaring to the Pope, how,
contrary to all the privileges and immuni-
ties of Holy Church, he had violated the
Sanctuary of St. Mary le Bow, from whence
william with the Long Beard was forcihly
taken, condemned to death, and hanged
on the tree.

The Pope received the accusation,and ad-
mitted its relevancy. Addressing Richard‚
he exhorted him, as he tendered his soul's
health, to remove the Archhishop from the
Justiciarship: and furthermore, wholly to
abstain thenceforth from employing any
Prelate in secular affairs, A concurrent
mandate was addressed to all the PrelateS,
strictly prohibiting thern from meddling
with employments so uncongenial to their

 

 

