INTRODUCTION. xxix

Church property was considered as herit-
able and belonging to particular familie5‚ ,
had subsisted of old time. In Ireland the
usage was already very antient, and long
established before the eleventh century. The
Arcbbishoprick of Armagh, previously to
the election of St. Malachi, continued here-
ditary in one sept during fifteen generations.
And so entirely was the archiepiscopal en-
dowment converted into lay see, that the
eight last Bishops had not even received
boly orderS. Such being the usage with
respect to the Primate of the Irish Cburch,
it cannot be doubted but that the inferior
members of the hierarcby enjoyed the same
privilege. Amongst the Armorican BretonS,
an hereditary succession ‘in the Cburch
equally prevailed. Theobald, the son of a
Priest, having obtained the Bishoprick of
RenneS, married the daughter of the Arch-
deacon of Nantes. When he grew old, he
retired to the Abbey of St. Melanius‚ and

gave the Bishoprick to his son Walter, and
Walter in his turn gave it to his son Warine.

, These are perhaps instances rather of a
right of alienation than of inheritance: but
Duke Conan expressly attests that a pa-
rochial church had been granted by his
predecessorS, by homage, to married Clerks
and their sons, “jure hereditario.'’

In Italy, during the tenth century, Ra-
therius Bishop of Verona, after vainly at-

